---
layout: page
title: 2022
description: Cooperative Recovery for Safe Multirobot Operations
img: assets/img/RAL2022intro.png
importance: 1
category: Current Work
---



<font size="+2.6">Resilient Mobile Swarm Formations Using RSSI-based Localization in the Presence of Sensor Cyber Attacks and Faults</font>
<br/>

This work is being prepared for submission to the IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters (RAL) in the Spring of 2022.

<p style="font-size:13px"><span style="font-size:14px"><b>Abstract:</b></span> Cooperative multi-robot systems (MRSs) coordinate their motion by utilizing control consensus schemes to perform desired tasks. In the event of stealthy cyber-attacks or faults to position sensors on individual robots, the loss of observability results in diminished control performance and could potentially hijack the MRS to undesired states. In this letter, we propose a framework to: i) generate a detectable hidden signal to alert neighboring robots of its loss of positioning sensing, and ii) a cooperative behavior of neighboring robots to aid in recovery (i.e., localization) of any compromised robots. To accomplish these objectives, we leverage a randomness-based approach to information exchange amongst robots to hide and detect the hidden signal. Furthermore, neighboring robots follow a known cooperative behavior to encircle any compromised robots to come within distance/range sensing to aid in recovery. Compromised robots then use particle filtering for re-localization by utilizing the received position information of neighboring robots (i.e., mobile landmarks) and the distance measurements of robots within on-board range sensing. Our framework is validated in simulation and experiments on proximity-based formations of unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) in the presence of cyber-attacks or faults to localization sensors.</p>
  
<div class="row row-cols-1 justify-content-center">
    <!-- <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0"> -->
    <div class="col-7">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/RAL2022intro.png" title="example image" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    A depiction of the problem at hand, where neighboring robots create a cooperative motion to aid in localization recovery of a compromised robot suffering from cyber attacks or faulty on-board sensors.
</div>


The recent use of mobile multi-agent systems (MASs) have allowed for increased performance and efficiency to complete autonomous operations/tasks as 
compared to single robot operations. Specific examples that gain an advantage with the use of MASs include search and rescue maritime operations, 
military convoying/platooning in open terrain, cooperative surveillance, and 
exploration missions within unknown environments. To enable decentralized cooperative behavior to successfully accomplish operations, 
consensus algorithms for formation control are used to allow agents to satisfy a desired global performance. 

Typically, approaches that utilize MASs make the assumption that all agents are cooperative during operations. A single uncooperative agent that shares 
incorrect information can affect the performance of the entire swarm, thus preventing objectives from being accomplished and potentially hijacking the 
swarm to undesired states. As a result, strategies for swarm resilience are of great concern to maintain system performance to effectively 
complete desired operations. In this work, incorrect sharing of information by an agent can be due to on-board localization/position sensors that experience 
malicious cyber-attacks or are defective/faulty. Compromised agents that no longer have a reliable sensor for position (i.e., loss of observability) lose 
localization capabilities within the environment, which consequently diminishes formation control performance.


The focus resides on the problem of resilient coordination in multi-agent mobile swarms that leverage control consensus schemes while maintaining 
desired formations in open or unknown environments that do not offer landmarks for use in localization. To deal with this, the proposed framework 
enables compromised agents to leverage Received Signal Strength Indication (RSSI) and received state (e.g., position) information from neighboring agents 
(i.e., mobile landmarks) for localization. More specifically, multilateration is performed using measured RSSI and received neighboring agent's states to 
provide position measurements in replacement of the unreliable (i.e., compromised) on-board position sensors. To minimize the RSSI-based position measurements, 
a weighted least squares (WLS) method is used with a hyperbolic weighting matrix that leverages the commonly utilized log-normal shadowing path loss model. Moreover, the RSSI-based position measurements have unknown covariance which differ from the nominal on-board position sensor. To 
improve state estimation performance, compromised agents leverage an Adaptive Kalman Filter (AKF) 
to estimate the position measurement covariance matrix at runtime. The proposed framework is introduced in a generalized manner that may be used on any 
formation control technique for swarms of homogeneous linear time-invariant (LTI) modeled agents. 

Videos will be included on this page once this work has been completed!


